Video Demo:
Description:
This is a flight search based project. This project aims to assist passengers to search an appropriate flight on the basis of source, destination, date, price, book flight, and finally pay for the flight, and one of the best feature is to print the ticket and optionally cancel the booked flight. This program does not only run as I provided details sequentially above, instead it can run as per the choice of the passengers, it is elaborated later.

AVISEAT is the name of my project. I have created one folder named "AVISEAT" in ~/project, inside it project.py named file contains all the programs. Next, test_project.py is the name of python file that tests the program written in the project.py. Project.py contains class named 'flightD' which further contains init and str methods along with other methods Source_search(), Sestination_search(), Price_search(), Date_search(), Book_flight(), Pre_ticket(), Cancel_ticket(), Pay_ticket() and others. Besides this methods, there are multiples custom functions that take input the required variable and call the class and send the variable stored required information. For example: let's say source_search() is a custom function that takes input like source and passes it by calling the methods 'Source_search()' by storing into the source into the 'flight' variable, similarly others types.

This project helps passengers to search a flight out of numerous flights using source(means the location from where the passengers want to take flight). Let's say there are a lot of flights out of which two cities exist in a long range of distance within Nepal eg. Kathmandu and Kanchanpur. If a passenger is in Kathmandu city. Then the source will be Kathmandu itself. So he will enter into this project and search flight from Kathmandu. Secondly, he/she should tell the destination(where he/she wants to go). In the above case, Kanchanpur will be the destination and he/she will get the all similar flights in a tabular form as per the input of source and destination. Then he/she needs to enter the date (when he/she wants to go). Additional feature in this project is the price feature. One passenger can choose a flight according to his/her budget. Finally, he/she will reach one flight which can be the choice. If it likely meets the aim of passenger then he/she can proceed the booking process. After entering into the function of booking, the flight will be staged for flight payment. After completing the payment process, he/she can head to print the ticket. One thing the need to remember it is not compulsory to search flight according to the sequent I provided. They have huge flexibility. Can search flights in any order like date, destination, source, price..etc. At the end, If a passenger changes his/her mood then he/she can cancel flight and he/she will get the money refunded completely.

Here is explaination of the way the programs run. First when a passenger runs 'python project.py' in the Command line environment like Terminal by being in the directory named 'AVISEAT'. It will show you two boxes of different details. First box will tell about the status of the passenger progress with the code. For example, how many flights has he/she booked? Has she payed for the flight or printed Ticket? One personal sensitive Bank Balance detail of the passenger. If he/she pays for the flight, the flight amount will be deducted or if he/she cancels the flight then the amount will be refunded into the account. This bank balance transaction is implemented with the superficial logic. Second box tabulates all the details of flights like flight_name, flight_id, source, destination, date of flight, price per flight, successful flights number.

Then the program asks what he/she wants to search. This means aspects like source, destination, date, and price. After writing input, this will call the the respective objects of the respective aspect in the class 'flightD'. And this program will run while loop unless input is given 'no', After entering into one of the aspect, it will query certain details like 'Where are you? or source'. Giving related answer, if any such source or any aspect is matched in the particular key value pairs then related flights will be shown in the terminal in a table form with all details. For pre-information, all the user inputs are case-insentive. After reaching to one of the aimed flight, he/she should enter keyword 'book' to open a form and fill the id of the flight, name of passengers, numbers of passengers. After filling the form of ticket two updates will happen. One, the status of book will increase by 1. Second, it will print preliminary ticket in the terminal. If it is okay, then he/she should go for payment. To do so, he/she should enter keyword 'pay'. Then a payment form will open simply enter the total amount shown in the heading. After doing so, Again two updates will occur. First, the status box will unstage the booking status, stage the payed and ticket status, and second a query will automatically pop up in the the terminal which will ask about printing the ticket of flight. At the end one exceptional case is handling the ticket cancellation. If a passenger does not want to take flight then he/she can cancel flight using keyword 'cancel'. Before doing so, one have to fill a small query form regarding the cause of flight, name of flight, and person's name.

Including about testing this program. I have created a python file named 'test_project.py' in which I have tested four instances. These instances are not the custom fuction instead methods inside the class. This is because this project requires updated information interrelated, so it is necessary to test this methods and return the narrowed searched data from the bundles of list of dictionaries. I did not find any alternative to this program, as per my logic.

In sum, this is a flight search based project by using python that specifically assists to search flight, book flight, pay for flight and print a simple pdf build using fpdf python library.
